July 2023, Group B : 

I Complete the conditional sencences in the situations using the words in brackets (3).

1. A member of your team is constantly missing deadlines.(threat)
If you miss again,i will report you to the boos.
(miss again / report)

2. A colleague wonders whether to put the presentation on a CD or not.(advice)
If i were you,i would put the presentation on a cd.
(be you / put)

3. I didn't send the invitations so many people didn't come.(regret)
if i had sent the invitations,many people would have come.
(send / come)

II Make the opposites of the following words by adding the appropriate prefix (3).
1. volatile ...................nonvolatile
2.suitable ...................unsuitable
3.appropriate ... inappropriat

III Complete the following memo using these words (4):
	few, much, a little, little, a few, too, many, enough, a great deal of

Sales figures for the year to date have been ...a little... disappointing as ..many... distributors are willing to promote our products as ...mach.... as we would like.
The commission is relatively low and therefore there is very ..little..... incentive for them to ensure volume sales.

IV Rewrite the sentences by putting verbs in the passive where appropriate (8).

Neural networks look at the rules of using data. As a result, the software continually analyses value and compares it to the other factors, and it compares these factors repeatedly until it finds patterns or rules.
The software then looks for other patterns based on these rules or sends out an alarm when it hits a trigger value.

Тhe Rules of using data are looked at by Neural networks.
As a result,the value is continually analysed and compared to the other factors by the softwer,and these factors are compared repeatedly util patterns or rules are found.
Other patterns are then looked for based on these rules or an alarm is sent out when a trigger value is hit by softwer.

V Rewrite these sentences in the passive (3).

1. You have to explain the procedure to me.
The procedure has to be explained to me by you.

2. I have already given a set of diagrams.
A set of diagrams has already been  given by me.

3. Someone will demonstrate the game to the children.
.... The game will be demonstrated to the childran by someone.

VI Put the corrent form of the verbs in brackets, -ing or infinitive (8).

1. You can get advice by ..phoning.. (phone) their help-line.
2. The mouse wheel enables you ...to scroll....(scroll)up and down the document.
3. She claims ..to have...(have) the necessary authority.
4. Before ..switching off..(switch off), make sure you have saved your work.
5. Adding more memory lets your computer ...work...(work) faster.
6. They objected ....to paying........(pay) for an expensive subscription.
7. It is a waste of time ..hacking into.. (hack into) the system without knowing the password.
8. I look forward ......to inputting......... (input) data by voice instead of using a keyboard.

VII Complete the text below using one of the articles (9).(ISPRAVLJENO)

Not enough companies are using ..(prazno).. social tools to motivate their own employees. Internet tools such as these can help ..(the).. companies solve ..(empty ).. problems.
Take for example ..(a).. case of ..(a).. car manufacturer. Some of ..(the).. company's cars were not performing well in ..(the).. most challenging environments, such as ..the.. deserts.
By using ..(a).. social network on the Internet, businesses got employees from different parts of the world to look at the problem and collectively collaborate.

VIII Rewrite these sentences to emphasise the words in italics (5).

1. Support engineers must ''empathise with users''. 
- What support engineers must is empthise with users.

2. ''The Altair 8800'' was one of the first computers you could assemble at home.
-It was the altair 8800 that was one of the first computers you could assemble at home.

3. The GPRS phone became available ''in 2001''.
- It was in 2001 that the gprs phone became available.

4. Wap phone users didn't like ''waiting for Internet access''.
-What wap phone users didnt like was waiting for internet access.

5. I need ''information'' quickly.
-What i need quickly is information.

IX Replace the words in italics in each sentence the appropriate form of an -ise verb (5).

1. If you use this new application, it 'reduces to a minimum' the size of your photo.
If you use this new application, it minimises the size of your photo.
-
2. We can produce solutions 'which are tailored to the customers'.
-We can produce custmised solutions. (ispravno je "customised);
3. It is an offence to make copies of software 'which are done without authority'.
-It is an offence to make copies of unauthorized software.
4. A new gadget always 'makes a revolution' in the way we communicate.
-A new gadget always revolutionise  the way we communicate.
5. Some companies make 'specially written' applications.
Some companies make specialized applications.

X Make a relative clause using a relative pronoun (4).

1. I was talking to a man. He is the head of Nokia.

I was talking to a man who is the head of Nokia.
2.  You were looking for the ticket. Jan has found it.

You were looking for the ticket which jan has found.
3. We drew up a shortlist of candidates. Their CVs were very good.
-We draw up a shortlist of candidates whose cvs were very good.

4. I recently went back to the town. I used to work there.
I recently went back to the town where i used to work.

XI Report the sentences (5).

1. "When will you be testing a new program?"
he asked me when i would be testing a new program.

2. "We don't want to have any problems with electricity supply."
He said that they did not wanted to have any problems with electricity supply.

3. "Do you know why the flight has been delayed?"
he asked me if i knew why the flight had been delayed.

4. "I am not going to make any changes now."
-he said that he was not going to make any changes then.

5. "Have you ever done some training?"
He asked me if i hed ever done some training.

XII Link these statements using a relative clause with a participle (2).

1. a) Thin client is a simple computer.
   b) It comprises a processor and memory, display, keyboard, mouse and hard drives only.
Thin client is a simple computer that compriseing a processor and memory,disply,keybord,mouse and hard drivers only.
2. a) Subject directories are hierarchically organised indexes.
   b) They are categorised into subject areas.
Subject directories are hierarchically organised indexes categorised into subject areas.

XIII Complete the sentences using the correct form of the word in brackets (5).

1. The combination of .electronics.... and new textile materials has made it possible to create musical jackets that can read our hear rate. (ELECTRON)
2. An ..erasable.. optical disc allows data to be deleted and new data to be recorded. (ERASE)
3. A video ...digitizer..... is used to convert analogue video into digital video files. (DIGIT)
4. Is this format ..convertible..? (CONVERT)
5. The two major ..manufacurers.. of processor chips are Intel and AMD. (MANUFACTURE)

XIV Replace the words in italics with the appropriate form of the verb beginning or ending with en (4).

1. A MIDI message 'makes' sound 'into code' as 8-bit bytes of digital information.
-
encodes
2. The new version of SimCity has been 'made better' in many ways.
-enhanced

3. Designer can offer good ideas for 'making' your web site 'brighter'.
-
Designer can offer good ideas for brighten your web site.
4. Electronic readers allow you to 'make' the print size 'larger'.
-Electronic readers allow you to enlarge the printer size.

XV Using prefixes make an IT term for each of these definitions (3): 
1. a very small but powerful processor .microprocesor.
2. a private network containted within an enterprise used to securly share company information and computing resources among employees .intranet..
3. describes a program which allows two way communication between user and computer ..interactive..


XVI Translate the following sentences into English (5).

1. Kada poruka stigne na svoju destinaciju, ona prolazi kroz istih sedam mrežnih komunikacionih slojeva kao kada je poslana, ali u suprotnom smjeru.

2. Jezik za označavanje hiperteksta (HTML) je skup kodova koji se uglavnom koriste za veb stranice, a koji kreira elektronske dokumente prema pravilima utvrđenim od strane standardnog generalizovanog jezika za označavanje (SGML).

3. Koja odlika izbjegava problem odlučivanja kako se svaka posebna vrsta podataka integriše i sinhronizuje u jednu radnu cjelinu?

4. Zbog svoje anonimnosti, internet pruža pravo okruženje za internetsko uhođenje, uznemiravanje ili zloupotrebu, uglavnom u sobama za ćaskanje.

5. Rudarenje podataka je jednostavno filtriranje velike količine neobrađenih podataka radi korisnih informacija koja kompaniji daju konkurentsku prednost.

XVII Explain the object-oriented programming and..........