July 2023 - Group A : 

I Complete the conditional sencences in the situations using the words in brackets (3).

1. A colleague has a plenty of gadgets to test. (offer to help)
If you have time this afternoon, i will help you to test your gadgets.
(help/test)

2. A colleague has a new computer but can't make it work. (advice)
If I were you, i would call help line.
(be you/call help line)

3. I was late and missed the flight. (regret)
If I had not been late, i would not have missed the flight.
 

II Make the opposites of the following words by adding the appropriate prefix (3).

1. formatted unformated
2. function disfunction
3. sufficient insufficient

III Complete the following memo using these words (4):

		few, much, a little, little, a few, too, many, enough, a great deal of

We recently did a survey of 1,500 customers. Unfortunately, very ..few.. of those questioned(7%) said that our designs were attractive and ..many.. people(over half of the respondents) felt they were ..a litle.. old fashioned.
As a result, I have commissioned a new design, made big effort and spent ..much .. time with the marketing department.
I am sending you the samples of a new design for you to comment on and, if you have some time between now and the New Year, I'd be grateful for your comments.

IV Rewrite the sentences by putting verbs in the passive where appropriate (8).

You shouldn't place objects in front of the air inlet. And you must keep inlet grille free from obstructions, and clean it regulary. 
If there is a damage, you have to stop the blower immediately. Foreign bodies entering the duct cause serious harm. 
Before you start the blower, it's important to ensure that external vents at the end of the air-intake duct are open. 
When you open the vents, you should fully extend the adjusting handle.

-Objects should not be placed in front of the air inlet.Inlet grille must be kept free from obstruction,and cleaned regularly.
If there is a damage, the blower has to be stoped immediately. Serious harm is caused by Foreign bodies entering the duct.Before the blower is started,
it is important to ensure that external vents at the end of the air-intake duct are being opend.
when the vents are opend, the adjusting handle should be fully extended.

V Rewrite these sentences in the passive (3).

1. You have to switch off your mobile phone during the flight.
-Your mobile phone has to be switched off during the flight.

2. The CEOs have discussed the proposal.
-The proposal has been discussed by the ceos.

3. They are building a new extension.
-A new extension is being built.

VI Complete the gap in each sentence with the correct form of the verb in brackets (8).

1. Don't switch on without ..checking.. (check) the A drive for a floppy.
2. You'll have to get used ..to changing..(change) your password each month.
3. The Caps Lock key allows you ..to type.. (type) all in capitals.
4. We stopped ..checking..(check) it when I noticed something was wrong.
5. Unfortunately, the machine failed ..to operate..(operate).
6. Changing the motherboard lets your computers ..work..(work) faster.
7. It is not worth ..writing..(write) new instructions.
8. He objected ..to paying..(pay) for long-distance calls to use the Internet.

VII Complete the text below using one of the article (9).
..(prazno).. businesses need to work out how to use ..(the).. power of social media to ?encourage? cooperation from both ..(prazno).. employees and customers to get ..(the).. best results.
..(a).. clear example is ..(the).. growing trend of forward-thinking companies to use their community of customers to help ..(the).. other customers who have ..(a).. problem with ..(the).. product.

VIII Rewrite these sentences to emphasise the words in italics (5).

1. 'The Intel Pentium' was introduced in 1993.
-It was the intel pentium that was introduced in 1993.

2. Microsoft launched Windows XP 'in 2001'.
-It was in 2001 that Microsoft launched windows xp.

3. Moore's Law was named after 'Gordon Moore'.
-What Moore s law was named after was Gordon Moore.

4. Intel 'designed the first microprocessor' in 1971.
-What intel did in 1971 was design the first microprocessor.

5. I don't like 'electronic books'.
- What I don't like is electronic books.	


IX Replace the words in italics in each sentence the appropriate form of an -ise verb (5).

1. All our clients use systems 'which have been converted for computers'.
-All our clients use computerized systems.

2. Some mobile operators offer 'speciatly written' applications.
-Some mobile operators offer specialized applications.

3. You can protect data by putting it in a form only 'users with authority' can understand.
-You can protect data by puting it in a authorized form.

4. A player lets you group songs into playlists and 'makes' the selection 'random'
-A player lets you group songs into playlist and randomise.

5. These factors can be 'put into categories' based on their effects.
-These factors can be categorize based on their effects.


X Make a relative clause using a relative pronoun (4).

1. I've got the details of the hotel. You'll be staying there.
-I've got the details of the hotel where you'll be staying.

2. The privatization of the company will set the scene for the new steps. Their final terms are soon to be decided.
-The privatization of the company will set the scene for the new steps which final terms are soon to be decided.
(The privatization of the company will set the scene for the new steps, the final terms of which are soon to be decided.)
3. My friend is planning to retire next year. He runs his own business.
-My friend who runs his onw business is planning to retire next year.

4. He was selling something. I wasn't interested in it.
-He was selling something that i was not interested in.

XI Report the sentences (5).

1. "Charles has just phoned and he wants to see you."
- He said that Charles had just phoned and he wanted to see me.
2. "How much time did you spend on writing the program?"
-He asked me how much time i spent on writing the program.
3. "Do you have any idea how much it costs?"
-He asked me if i had any idea how much it cost.
4. "If we don't do something quickly we'll lose out to our competitors."
He said that if they did not do something quickly,they would lose out to their competitors.
5. "What will you be doing with these files?"
-He asked me what i would be doing with those files.

XII Link these statements using a relative clause with a participle (2).

3. a) The network can simulate the owner's presence.
   b) This makes sure vital tasks are carried out in her absence.

The network can simulate the owners presence making sure vital tasks are carried out in her absence.

2. a) FTP is an Internet service.
   b) It is used to download files from a server.

FTP is an Internet service used to download files from a server.

XIII Complete the sentences using the correct form of the word in brackets (5).

1. Most library database are ..accessible.. via the Internet. (ACCESS)
2. This book will show you how to ..computerize.. your small business.(COMPUTER)
3. From kitchen magnets to computer disks, ..magnetism.. plays a central role in the technology of everyday life.(MAGNET)
4. I have bought a new, ..programmable.. keyboard. (PROGRAM)
5. She is a computer ..consultant..(CONSULT) and specializes in IT strategies.

XIV Replace the words in italics with the appropriate form of the verb beginning or ending with en (4).

1. You can 'convert' data to 'secret code' to make it secure.
-You can encrypt data to make it secure.
2. The teacher is using a new program to 'give courage' to children to write stories.
-The teacher is using a new program to encourage children to write stories.
3. You can 'make' the picture on your monitor 'wider'.
-you can widen the picture on your monitor.
4. A gateway 'makes it possible' for dissimilar networks to communicate.
-A gateway enables for dissimilar networks to communicate.


XV Using prefixes make an IT term for each of these definitions (3): 

1. working at distance                    ..teleworking..
2. a system used by many people           ..multiuser..
3. having many different modes of input   ..multimodal..

XVI Translate the following sentences into English (5).

1. Kroz koje mrežne komunikacione slojeve poruka prolazi kada stigne na svoje odredište?

2. Jedna od osnovnih motivacija za korišćenje objektno-orijentisanog programiranja jeste rukovanje različitim multimedijalnim aplikacijama koje se mogu zajedno upakovati u izvršne module.

3. Proširivi jezik za označavanje (XML) definiše poseban metod za kreiranje tekstualnih formata za podatke tako da datoteke budu nezavisne od programa, nezavisne od platforme i podržavaju internacionalizaciju.

4. Virus takođe može da sadrži korisnu informaciju koja ostaje neaktivna sve dok ga okidač ne aktivira, kao kada korisnik pritisne određeni taster.

5. Koliko su zavisne vjetroturbine kao sekundarni izvor energije s obzirom na činjenicu da su vremenski uslovi promjenljivi?

